.TH CRATES 6 "2010-01-01" "Octaspire games" "Crates Manual"
.SH NAME
crates \- extensible 3D puzzle game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR crates
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crates
is a three dimensional puzzle game. It consists of missions that
consist of levels. To pass a mission, you must move player to the
exit by interacting with the different kinds of crates in the level.
Before that you must also collect all the keys and toggle all the
toggles that the level might contain. Every level has a password
that makes it possible to continue playing from that level whenever
you want, but if you want to get your name in the hall of fame, you
must play the whole mission at one go. On that case, the faster you
are, the better is your position in the hall of fame.
.LP
.B crates
is controlled with a keyboard or a gamepad. Passwords can be written
faster with the alphanumeric keys of the keyboard or a little slower
by using the D-pad of gamepad to select the letters one at a time.
The default buttons of the gamepad and many other settings of the
game can be changed in a configuration file
.I config.lua
in the
.IR "resources" "-directory"
of the game. Sound effects are disabled as a default,
and if you want to enable them you can do it by changing setting
.B config.sounds
from
.B false
into
.B true
in the configuration file. See the configuration file for the
other configurable settings.
.LP
Player is moved around with a keyboard or a gamepad. It continues
movement until something stops it. It can be moved only when it
is not already moving \- you cannot change player's direction if it is
moving. If nothing stops it, it will fly out of the level and the level
is restarted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-version"
Display version information.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Available configuration options can be seen and modified in
.IR resources/config.lua .
.SH CONTROLS
Game is controlled with a keyboard or a gamepad. The default controls are listed
below. The default buttons of gamepad can be changed in the configuration file.
.SS KEYBOARD
.TS
tab (@);
l l.
Esc@Exit to previous state
Return@Accept
R@Restart level
Arrows@Move
.TE
.SS GAMEPAD
.TS
tab (@);
l l.
Button-9@Exit to previous state
Button-1@Accept
Button-10@Restart level
D-pad@Move (also sticks)
.TE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I resources/
This directory and its subdirectories contain all the different resources of the game.
That is, it contains the configuration file, all the textures, meshes, Lua scripts for the missions
and for the different game states.
.TP
.I resources/config.lua
All the configurable settings of the game. The configuration file is a Lua script.
.TP
.I resources/missions
Directory containing all the missions of the game. If you have new mission(s), you can
drop those to this directory and (re)start the game. After that those new missions
can be selected from the game's menu and played. Missions are Lua scripts.
.TP
.I resources/states
Directory containing Lua scripts for all the different states of the game.
New states can be dropped to this directory and those will be loaded when game is (re)started.
.TP
.I resources/entities
Directory containing Lua scripts for all the different crates of the game.
New entities can be dropped to this directory and those will be loaded when game is (re)started.
.TP
.I resources/textures
Directory containing all the textures of the game. New textures can be dropped
to this directory and those will be loaded when game is (re)started.
.TP
.I resources/meshes
Directory containing Lua scripts for the 3D meshes of the game.
New meshes can be dropped to this directory and those will be loaded when game is (re)started.
.TP
.I resources/sounds
Directory containing sound effects of the game. New sound effects can be dropped
to this directory and those will be loaded when game is (re)started.
.TP
.I resources/musics
Directory containing musics of the game (might be empty if there is no musics).
New music-files can be dropped to this directory and those will be loaded when game is (re)started.
.TP
.I resources/halloffame
Directory containing the hall\-of\-fame\-files of the different missions.
.TP
.I resources/log.txt
The log file for the last run of the game. This file is generated only if the
setting
.B config.filelog
is set to
.B true
in the configuration file.
.SH NOTES
.B crates
uses major.minor.build version numbering scheme as defined in
.I http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/7
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug, please see the crates homepage
.I www.octaspire.com/crates/
for up-to-date instructions on reporting bugs.

Please note that if you enable sounds and your systems has PulseAudio,
the SDL(_mixer) + PulseAudio combination might cause problems at least on some GNU/Linux-systems.
See for example "the pulseaudio hack". For example, at the time of writing in Ubuntu, if your system
has SDL with ALSA option (libsdl1.2debian-alsa) installed, sounds might be crackling, channels will
ebb away and game will get jammed when you try to quit playing. In this case removing libsdl1.2debian-alsa
and installing SDL with PulseAudio options (libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio) instead helped.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Crates ‐ extensible 3D puzzle game.
Copyright (C) 2008‐2010  Octaspire (www.octaspire.com)

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
